---
layout: post
title:  "Resque 1.26.0 released"
date:   2016-03-10 04:09:35 -0500
---

It’s been two long years, and a week. But today, I cut 1.26.0. Add this to your
`Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "resque", "~>1.26.0"
```

After a `bundle install`, you’ll be good to go.

## Why so long?

Way back when, my day job was working on open source Ruby projects. So was
several of our other contributors’. We had big plans for Resque: a 2.0. Resque
is a very old codebase, and is one of the larger and most widely deployed Ruby
projects. There’s lots of good work that could be done, and a 2.0 is freeing:
it allows you to reach for the sky.

But times change. I’m the only active maintainer left, and I don’t even
primarily work in Ruby anymore. So I put the kibosh on 2.0, and will be
spending my time maintinaing Resque rather than re-thinking it. If you
use Resque, I would love your help, and we’ve gotten some contributions
from several new people in the last few months.

## What’s new?

Mostly, fixing bugs. You can see the changelog entry [here][changelog]. One of
the things that we’ll be doing in the future is keeping the changelog up to date
as we do development, rather than right before a release. The work of putting
together the changelog has made releasing tough in the past.

[changelog]: https://github.com/resque/resque/blob/master/HISTORY.md#1260-2016-03-10

Another notable change: we have also adopted the [Contributor Covenant] 1.4.
We want Resque contribution to be pleasant for all.

[Contributor Covenant]: http://contributor-covenant.org/

One of the things we did was reach out to companies that we knew were on a
fork of Resque and bring their patches back into the mainline, so they can
use the official releases again. If your company is still on a fork, I would
love to help you migrate to the official release again. Get in touch.

Finally, `1.x` work is done on the `master` branch again, which is now the
default branch. The few remaining open PRs that are targetted against
`1-x-stable` will be manually merged into master by me when they’re ready.

## Ruby version support

As Resque has a lot of legacy deployments, we support very old Rubies, including
ones that are not supported by the Ruby project itself. However, I [recently
modified the rubies we test in CI][ci]. We now have three “tiers” of Ruby support:

```
Tier 1: blocking
----------------

These are tested in CI, and we won’t cut a release without it passing.

This list is:

* 1.8.7
* 1.9.3
* 2.3.0

... also known as the last release in each version line.

Tier 2: community
-----------------

We consider these Ruby versions supported, but won’t test in CI.
Patches to fix breakage on these versions are very welcome, but we
probably won’t actively prioritize efforts ourselves.

This list is:

* 1.9.2
* 2.0.0
* 2.1.0
* 2.2.0

Unsupported
-----------

We don’t support these versions at all. If you can submit a fix for
breakage on these versions, we’ll take it if it doesn’t break newer
versions, but won’t guarnatee that they won’t end up broken in the
future.

This list is:

* 1.9.1
* 1.9.0
* All versions before 1.8.7
```

[ci]: https://github.com/resque/resque/commit/2fda1d6dae0b7570a5e76606c81a236a9110c408

However, at this point, I truly wonder how much Resque is used on Ruby 1.8 or
1.9. I can barely even get 1.8 on my computer these days, and mostly rely on
Travis telling me what’s going on with it. I am considering dropping 1.8.7 and
1.9.3 to ‘community’. If you don’t want that to happen, please get in touch.
I mostly am just wondering if I’m doing this work for no real reason, not
because I truly want to drop these rubies. It’s one less thing to worry about.
